README.md, before:

# roomie (refactor)

TypeScript-first refactor of the original **roomie** library. It parses basic metadata from ROM files for a few systems (NDS, GBA, GB, SNES/SFC).

> This is a conservative refactor: no prototype pollution, strong typing, and clear APIs. The SNES header detection uses a simple heuristic and can be improved later.

## Install

```bash
npm i roomie
```

## Usage

```ts
import Roomie from "roomie";

const r = new Roomie("/path/to/game.sfc");
r.on("loaded", (info) => console.log(info));

await r.load("/path/to/game.sfc"); // or construct with path and wait for 'loaded'
console.log(r.info);
```

### API

- `new Roomie(path: string)` – constructs and immediately loads the ROM file (emits `'loaded'`).
- `await roomie.load(path: string)` – reload another file.
- `roomie.info: RomInfo` – parsed metadata (system, size, sha1, gameCode, region, and SFC fields when applicable).
- `roomie.rom: Buffer` – raw bytes.
- `roomie.system: "nds" | "gba" | "gb" | "sfc"` – detected system (by file extension for now).

### Notes

- **SNES HiROM/LoROM**: detection is heuristic. If you have a better strategy (e.g., checksum/compl. validation), PRs welcome.
- **Regions/specs** tables are auto-generated from the original JS to keep behavior and coverage.

## Scripts

- `npm run build` – typecheck, emit ESM to `dist`, then produce `index.mjs` and a CJS shim.
- `npm run typecheck` – TypeScript type check.
- `npm run clean` – remove `dist`.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

refactor: enhance load method to support both file paths and buffers

README.md, after:

# roomie

Roomie is a library for analyzing basic metadata of ROM files from various classic consoles. It allows extracting relevant information such as the game name, region, code, ROM and RAM size, version, and other console-specific data.

## Installation

```bash
npm install roomie
```

## Usage

```ts
import Roomie from "roomie";

const romPath = "/path/to/game.sfc";
const roomie = new Roomie(romPath);

roomie.on("loaded", (info) => {
  console.log("ROM Information:", info);
});

await roomie.load(romPath); // Load ROM from file path

const romBuffer = Buffer.from([...]); // Load ROM from a Buffer
await roomie.load(romBuffer);

console.log(roomie.info);
```

## Supported Consoles

Roomie supports metadata extraction from the following systems:

- **Nintendo DS (NDS):** Retrieves data such as the game name, region, game code, ROM and RAM size, version, among others.
- **Game Boy Advance (GBA):** Extracts information about the title, game code, region, ROM and RAM size, version, etc.
- **Game Boy (GB):** Provides details about the title, cartridge type, ROM and RAM size, and other metadata.
- **Super Nintendo / Super Famicom (SNES/SFC):** Detects the ROM type (HiROM/LoROM), game name, region, code, ROM size, and other specific fields.

## API

- `new Roomie(path: string | Buffer)` – Creates an instance and immediately loads the specified ROM file or buffer. Emits the `'loaded'` event when the information is available.
- `await roomie.load(pathOrBuffer: string | Buffer)` – Loads or reloads a different ROM file from a file path or a Buffer.
- `roomie.info: RomInfo` – Object with the analyzed ROM metadata, including system, size, game code, region, and other specific fields.
- `roomie.rom: Buffer` – Contains the raw bytes of the loaded ROM file.
- `roomie.system: "nds" | "gba" | "gb" | "sfc"` – Detected system based on the file extension and content.

If the system cannot be identified, the library throws errors with codes `unknown_file` (when loading from a path) or `unknown_bytes` (when loading from a Buffer).

## License

MIT
